---
image: virusbulletin.jpg
conference: Virus Bulletin 2018
title: "Now you see them, now you don't: wipers in the wild"
---
Wipers are an APT's new best friend. Traditionally, it is rare for destructive malware to appear in cyber espionage, and it generally runs [expand] counter to the conventional interests of an Advanced Persistent Threat (APT) – such as intelligence collection, persistence and covert access. But wiper malware is now appearing more often, emerging in APT toolkits, and was seen in at least four attacks in 2017 following only a handful of instances in the previous decade.
Does this mean the motivations of state actors are changing? We have seen APTs deviate from espionage and branch into criminal operations such as bank heists and the sabotage of critical infrastructure and industrial control systems. From the debilitating WannaCry to the sophisticated false flag Olympic Destroyer, the heightened deployment of wipers suggests there has been an evolution in attacker behaviour.
This paper examines three different classifications of wipers through examples of various politically targeted attacks: espionage (in the cases of Flame and StoneDrill), sabotage (seen in the cases of Shamoon 2.0 and DarkSeoul) and diversion (seen in the cases of Hermes and MBR Killer in bank heists in Taiwan and Chile, respectively). Wipers have become a low-cost way for state actors to conduct destructive attacks that serve multiple purposes – they have significantly more impact on victims and impede investigation into primarily non-destructive attacks.
[/expand]
